Add documentation (#116)
arborx/ArborX: docs/bounding_volume_hierarchy.md

# `ArborX::BVH`
Defined in header [`<ArborX_LinearBVH.hpp>`](https://github.com/arborx/ArborX/blob/master/src/ArborX_LinearBVH.hpp)
```C++
template <typename DeviceType>
class BoundingVolumeHierarchy;
```

The class template `ArborX::BoundingVolumeHierarchy` is a tree data structure that can be used to accelerate the search for geometrical objects in space.

ArborX defines the `ArborX::BVH` alias template for convenience.
```C++
template <typename DeviceType>
using BVH = BoundingVolumeHierarchy<DeviceType>;
```

## Template parameter
`DeviceType`
: A valid Kokkos device type, e.g. `Kokkos::Cuda::device_type` or `Kokkos::OpenMP::device_type`.

## Member types
Member type | Definition
--- | ---
`device_type` | `DeviceType`
`size_type` | `DeviceType::memory_space::size_type`
`bounding_volume_type` | `ArborX::Box`

## Member functions
[`(constructor)`](#arborxbvhdevicetypebvh)
: constructs the tree data structure.

[`size`](#arborxbvhdevicetypesize)
: returns the number of leaves stored in the tree.

[`empty`](#arborxbvhdevicetypeempty)
: checks whether the tree has no leaf.

[`bounds`](#arborxbvhdevicetypebounds)

> : returns a bounding volume able to contain all leaves stored in the tree.

Reviewer: all leaf nodes

[`query`](#arborxbvhdevicetypequery)

> : finds all leaves that meet some predicates, e.g. nearest to a point or intersecting with a box or a sphere.

Reviewer: `finds all leaves that satisfy a given predicate, ...`

# `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::BVH`
```C++

> BVH() noexcept; // (1)

Reviewer: Why not separate the constructors instead of (1) and (2)?

template <typename Primitives>
BVH(Primitives const& primitives); // (2)
```
1) Default constructor.  Constructs an empty tree.  

> 2) Constructs a bounding volume hierarchy from a variety of data source.

Reviewer: `from the given data sources`.

## Parameters
`primitives`

> : geometrical objects one wish to index

Reviewer: wishes or intends.

#### Type requirements

> A specialization of [`ArborX::Traits::Access`](https://github.com/dalg24/ArborX/blob/docs/docs/traits.md#arborxtraitsaccess) must match `Primitives` as the first template argument and `PrimitivesTag` as second argument.  

Reviewer: Should be a reference to the main github repo.

> `ArborX::Traits::Access<Primitives,PrimitivesTag>::get()` return type must decay either to `ArborX::Point` or `ArborX::Box`.  

Reviewer: `The return type of Arborx... must decay`.

> ArborX provides specializations for Kokkos views but the user may specialize it for his custom types.

Reviewer: the -> a, remove custom.

Reviewer 2: "his" -> "their"

## Complexity
$O(N log(N))$, where `N = ArborX::Traits::Access<Primitives,PrimitivesTag>::size(primitives)` is the number of primitives passed to the constructor.
## Exceptions
Memory allocation may throw.
## Notes

## Example
```C++
#include <ArborX_LinearBVH.hpp>
#include <Kokkos_Core.hpp>
#include <iostream>

> std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream& os, ArborX::Point const& p)

Reviewer: I would remove this function, and put the code in place.

Author: I will just pretend you didn't suggest that :@

{
    os << '(' << p[0] << ',' << p[1] << ',' << p[2] << ')';
}

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    Kokkos::initialize(argc, argv);
    
    Kokkos::View<ArborX::Point*> cloud('point_cloud', 1000);
    Kokkos::parallel_for(1000, KOKKOS_LAMBDA(int i){

>             cloud[i] = {{i, i, i}};

Reviewer: weird code alignment

Author: Will ensure code compiles and apply format.

        });
    
    using device_type = decltype(cloud)::device_type; 
    ArborX::BVH<device_type> bvh{cloud};

    auto const box = bvh.bounds();
    std::cout << box.min_corner() << " - " << box.max_corner() << '\n';
    
    Kokkos::finalize();

    return 0;
}
```
Output
```
(0,0,0) - (999,999,999)
```
## See also
[`query`](#arborxbvhdevicetypequery)
: search for all primitives that meet some predicates.  
[`bounds`](#arborxbvhdevicetypebounds)
: returns the bounding volume that contains all leaves.

# `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::size()`
```C++
size_type size() const noexcept;
```
Returns the number of leaves in the tree.
## Parameters
(none)
## Return value

> The number of leaves in the tree.

Reviewer: leaf nodes

## Complexity
Constant.
## See also
[`empty`](#arborxbvhdevicetypeempty)

> : checks whether the tree is empty.  

Reviewer: do you need to provide a description for `See also` functions?

Author: I want to.   That's what cppreference does.

[`bounds`](#arborxbvhdevicetypebounds)

> : returns the bounding volume that contains all leaves.

Reviewer: Why is `bounds` in see also?

# `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::empty()`
```C++
bool empty() const noexcept;
```

> Checks if the tree has no leaf.

Reviewer: has no leaf nodes.

## Parameters
(none)
## Return value
`true` if the tree is empty, `false` otherwise.
## Complexity
Constant.
## See also
[`size`](#arborxbvhdevicetypesize)
: returns the number of leaves.

# `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::bounds()`
```C++
bounding_volume_type bounds() const noexcept;
```

> Returns the smalest axis-aligned box able to contain all leaves stored in the tree or an invalid box if the tree is empty.

Reviewer: Need to spell what invalid box is.

## Parameters
(none)
## Return value

> The smallest bounding volume that contains all leaves stored in the tree.

Reviewer: Also need to specify that it can be invalid.

## Complexity
Constant.
## See also

# `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::query()`
```C++
template <typename Predicates>
void query(Predicates const& predicates, ...) const;
```

## Parameters
`predicates`
: Predicates to check against the primitives.

#### Type requirements
A specialization of [`ArborX::Traits::Access`](https://github.com/dalg24/ArborX/blob/docs/docs/traits.md#arborxtraitsaccess) must match the `Predicates` as first template argument and `PredicatesTag` as second argument.  
The static member function `ArborX::Traits::Access<Predicates,PredicatesTag>::get()` return type must decay to a valid AborX predicate.  
Such predicate may be generated by one of the functions listed below:

> * [`ArborX::nearest()`](https://github.com/dalg24/ArborX/blob/docs/docs/predicates.md#arborxnearest)

Reviewer: Change links.

* [`ArborX::intersects()`](https://github.com/dalg24/ArborX/blob/docs/docs/predicates.md#arborxintersects)

`indices`

> : position of the primitives that satisfy the predicates.  

Reviewer: Maybe write that it is an array and add a comment `of size offsets(n)`?

`offsets`
: predicate offsets for one-dimensional storage.

> `indices` stores the indices of the objects that satisfy the predicates.  `offset` stores the locations in the `indices` view that start a predicate, that is, `predicates(q)` is satisfied by `indices(o)` for `primitives(q) <= o < primitives(q+1)`.

Reviewer: Using `o` and `q` feels weird, why not something like `i` and `k`?

Following the usual convention, `offset(n) = nnz`, where `n` is the number of queries that were performed and `nnz` is the total number of collisions.
## Return value
(none)
## Complexity
$O(M log(N)$ where `M = ArborX::Traits::Access<Predicates,PredicatesTag>::size(predicates)` and `N = this->size()`.
## Exceptions

> Memory allocation with Kokkos may throw.

Reviewer: Match this comment to the other memory allocation comment.

  Kokkos::finalize();

  return 0;
}
```
Output
```
(0,0,0) - (999,999,999)
```
## See also
[`query`](#arborxbvhdevicetypequery)
: search for all primitives that meet some predicates.  
[`bounds`](#arborxbvhdevicetypebounds)
: returns the bounding volume that contains all leaves.

# `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::size()`
```C++
size_type size() const noexcept;
```
Returns the number of leaves in the tree.
## Parameters
(none)
## Return value
The number of leaves in the tree.
## Complexity
Constant.
## See also
[`empty`](#arborxbvhdevicetypeempty)
: checks whether the tree is empty.  
[`bounds`](#arborxbvhdevicetypebounds)
: returns the bounding volume that contains all leaves.

# `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::empty()`
```C++
bool empty() const noexcept;
```
Checks if the tree has no leaves.
## Parameters
(none)
## Return value
`true` if the tree is empty, `false` otherwise.
## Complexity
Constant.
## See also
[`size`](#arborxbvhdevicetypesize)
: returns the number of leaves.

# `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::bounds()`
```C++
bounding_volume_type bounds() const noexcept;
```
Returns the smallest axis-aligned box able to contain all leaves stored in the tree.
## Parameters
(none)
## Return value

> The smallest bounding volume that contains all leaves stored in the tree or an invalid bounding volume if the tree is empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The smallest bounding volume that contains all leaves stored in the tree. If the tree is empty, the return value is undefined.
```

Author: "Undefined" in C++ usually means unsafe.

Reviewer: @masterleinad @Rombur Please break the tie.

Reviewer 3: I like "invalid bounding volume" more.

Reviewer: OK

## Complexity
Constant.
## See also

# `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::query()`
```C++
template <typename Predicates>
void query(Predicates const& predicates, ...) const;
```

## Parameters
`predicates`
: Predicates to check against the primitives.

#### Type requirements
A specialization of [`ArborX::Traits::Access`](https://github.com/dalg24/ArborX/blob/docs/docs/traits.md#arborxtraitsaccess) must match the `Predicates` as first template argument and `PredicatesTag` as second argument.  

> The static member function `ArborX::Traits::Access<Predicates,PredicatesTag>::get()` return type must decay to a valid AborX predicate.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The static member function `ArborX::Traits::Access<Predicates,PredicatesTag>::get()` return type must decay to a valid ArborX predicate.  
```

Such predicate may be generated by one of the functions listed below:
* [`ArborX::nearest()`](https://github.com/arborx/ArborX/blob/docs/docs/predicates.md#arborxnearest)
* [`ArborX::intersects()`](https://github.com/arborx/ArborX/blob/docs/docs/predicates.md#arborxintersects)

`indices`
: position of the primitives that satisfy the predicates.  
`offsets`

> : predicate offsets for one-dimensional storage.

Reviewer: `predicate offsets in indices`

# `ArborX::BVH`
Defined in header [`<ArborX_LinearBVH.hpp>`](https://github.com/arborx/ArborX/blob/master/src/ArborX_LinearBVH.hpp)
```C++
template <typename DeviceType>
class BoundingVolumeHierarchy;
```

> The class template `ArborX::BoundingVolumeHierarchy` is a tree data structure that can be used to accelerate the search for geometrical objects in space.

Author: > class template -> template class?

No that is the right terminology

> accelerate -> perform?

No.  The whole point of the tree data structure is to accelerate the search.

ArborX defines the `ArborX::BVH` alias template for convenience.
```C++
template <typename DeviceType>
using BVH = BoundingVolumeHierarchy<DeviceType>;
```

## Template parameter
`DeviceType`

> : A valid Kokkos device type, e.g. `Kokkos::Cuda::device_type` or `Kokkos::OpenMP::device_type`.

Reviewer 3: Maybe clarify that the actual backend must have been enabled in `Kokkos`, like:
```suggestion
: A valid Kokkos device type, e.g. `Kokkos::Cuda::device_type` or `Kokkos::OpenMP::device_type`. Must be a device type the Kokkos library used was compiled for.
```

## Member types
Member type | Definition
--- | ---
`device_type` | `DeviceType`
`size_type` | `DeviceType::memory_space::size_type`
`bounding_volume_type` | `ArborX::Box`

## Member functions
[`(constructor)`](#arborxbvhdevicetypebvh)

> : constructs the tree data structure.

Reviewer 3: I would prefer having a table here as well.

Author: Not gonna happen :p

[`size`](#arborxbvhdevicetypesize)
: returns the number of leaves stored in the tree.

[`empty`](#arborxbvhdevicetypeempty)

> : checks whether the tree has no leaf.

Author: no leaves?

> : checks whether the tree has no leaf.

Reviewer: yes. Would still prefer leaf nodes, but not going to argue.

[`bounds`](#arborxbvhdevicetypebounds)
: returns a bounding volume able to contain all leaves stored in the tree.

[`query`](#arborxbvhdevicetypequery)
: finds all leaves that meet some predicates, e.g. nearest to a point or intersecting with a box or a sphere.

## Non-member functions
TBD

> # `ArborX::BVH<DeviceType>::BVH`

Reviewer 3: Might be on a different page?

```C++
BVH() noexcept; // (1)

template <typename Primitives>
BVH(Primitives const& primitives); // (2)
```
1) Default constructor.  Constructs an empty tree.  
2) Constructs a bounding volume hierarchy from a variety of data source.
## Parameters
`primitives`
: geometrical objects one wish to index
#### Type requirements
A specialization of [`ArborX::Traits::Access`](https://github.com/dalg24/ArborX/blob/docs/docs/traits.md#arborxtraitsaccess) must match `Primitives` as the first template argument and `PrimitivesTag` as second argument.  
`ArborX::Traits::Access<Primitives,PrimitivesTag>::get()` return type must decay either to `ArborX::Point` or `ArborX::Box`.  
ArborX provides specializations for Kokkos views but the user may specialize it for his custom types.

## Complexity

> $O(N log(N))$, where `N = ArborX::Traits::Access<Primitives,PrimitivesTag>::size(primitives)` is the number of primitives passed to the constructor.

Reviewer 3: Is this rendered for you? I see this literally as `$O(N log(N))$`.

Author: It was rendered within JupyterLab but it is not supported on GH rendered markdown.  They might be other options but I might just drop the dollar signs for now.

## Exceptions
Memory allocation may throw.
## Notes

## Example
```C++
#include <ArborX_LinearBVH.hpp>
#include <Kokkos_Core.hpp>
#include <iostream>

std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream& os, ArborX::Point const& p)
{
    os << '(' << p[0] << ',' << p[1] << ',' << p[2] << ')';
}

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    Kokkos::initialize(argc, argv);
    
    Kokkos::View<ArborX::Point*> cloud('point_cloud', 1000);
    Kokkos::parallel_for(1000, KOKKOS_LAMBDA(int i){
            cloud[i] = {{i, i, i}};
        });
    
    using device_type = decltype(cloud)::device_type; 
    ArborX::BVH<device_type> bvh{cloud};

    auto const box = bvh.bounds();
    std::cout << box.min_corner() << " - " << box.max_corner() << '\n';
    
    Kokkos::finalize();

    return 0;
}
```
Output
```
(0,0,0) - (999,999,999)
```

> ## See also

Reviewer 3: What about a table here as well?
